1.5 Release Notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SchoolTool
==========

1.5.3 (2010-11-24)
------------------

Final release for Maverick.

- Fixed Section meeting time misalignment in calendar (https://launchpad.net/bugs/611797)
- Added Bengali and Faroese translations, updated many others


1.5.2 (2010-10-04)
------------------

Maverick release candidate.

- Activation of selected school year (https://launchpad.net/bugs/635160)
- Added "Add Multiple Persons" to Manage->Persons and "New Person" (for
  administration) to all other person views (https://launchpad.net/bugs/268127)
- Empty usernames no longer crash when adding a person (https://launchpad.net/bugs/644296)
- Replace access setting checkboxes with radio buttons (https://launchpad.net/bugs/638651)
- Fix security checks to let teachers edit learners and other section info
  if they have access rights.
- Add "View Person" action button in contact views (https://launchpad.net/bugs/635207)
- Update translations.

More info at https://launchpad.net/schooltool/+release/1.5.2


1.5.1 (2010-09-09)
------------------

Maverick beta.

- Tweaked WYSIWYG CK editor (https://launchpad.net/bugs/485446)
- Make CK editor work with servers under mod-rewrite (https://launchpad.net/bugs/258951)
- Update to work with latest ZTK (1.0a3)
- Renamed some classes and interfaces from Source to Vocabulary.
  This change is not backwards compatible, plugins may need updating.
- Added error checking on demographics edit form (https://launchpad.net/bugs/610870)
- Update translations.

More info at https://launchpad.net/schooltool/+release/1.5.1


1.5.0 (2010-07-13)
------------------

New features
++++++++++++

- Introduce minimalistic learning levels.
- Introduce versioned catalogs.
- Allow applying timetable for a part of the term only (https://launchpad.net/bugs/532428)
- TimeTable object now has consecutive_periods_as_one flag for use by journal

Bug fixes
+++++++++

- Speed up editing of section learners and instructors (https://launchpad.net/bugs/599258)
- XLS Importer catches errors before trying to create objects. (https://launchpad.net/bugs/306339)
- Removed SchoolTool logo from PDF footers (https://launchpad.net/bugs/561558)
- Update translations (ca, en_AU, eu, ne, pl, tr)

More info at https://launchpad.net/schooltool/+release/1.5.0


SchoolTool Lyceum Journal
=========================

0.7.1 (2010-10-20)
------------------

- Update translations


0.7.0 (2010-07-13)
------------------

This is a development release that requires SchoolTool 1.5.0

- Section journal removes consecutive periods if timetable is so configured.


SchoolTool Gradebook
====================

0.8.1 (2010-10-04)
------------------

Maverick release candidate.

- Grades rounding mismatch (https://launchpad.net/bugs/585796)
- Calculate average grade with more precision (https://launchpad.net/bugs/333971)
- Use fixed precision for total and linked columns (https://launchpad.net/bugs/650838)
- Fix to let students view section's gradebook.
- Cosmetic fixes in various pages.
- Updated translations (es, lt, nl)


0.8.0 (2010-09-16)
------------------

Maverick beta.

- Update tests for use with SchoolTool 1.5.1


SchoolTool Intervention
=======================

0.4.1 (2010-10-04)
------------------

Maverick release candidate.

- Change style of some buttons to neutral (https://launchpad.net/bugs/613571)
- Changed recipients to email addresses for both messages and goals csv
- Do not crash if persons are removed or don't have email


0.4.0 (2010-09-15)
------------------

Maverick beta.

- CSV export of messages and goals (requested by SLA)
- Update for API changes in schooltool 1.5.1
- Updated translations (it, nl, pt_BR)

