1.6 Release Notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SchoolTool Release
==================

1.6.0 (unreleased)
------------------

Initial release as a new project, a SchoolTool suite including all supported
plugins, to https://launchpad.net/schooltool.release
This project is what has been tested by http://source.schooltool.org/buildbot/


1.6.0b1 (2011-04-20)
--------------------

Beta1 for Natty

- Update to ZTK 1.0.2
- Plugins now have optional optional inter-dependencies, include
  meta.zcml that defines a feature before including plugin.zcml.


1.6.0a1 (2011-02-23)
--------------------

Alpha1 for Natty

- Update to ZTK 1.0.1
- Update external dependencies versions to match Natty:
  + PIL 1.1.7
  + Reportlab 2.5
  + lxml 2.3
- Add ttf-liberation external dependency.
- Removed deprecated Zope dependencies:
  + zope.app.catalog
  + zope.app.intid
  + zope.app.session
  + zope.app.zptpage
- Remove schooltool.stapp2008fall from package set.


SchoolTool
==========

1.6.0 (2011-04-25)
------------------

- Move schooltool.commendation example plugin into its own project
  https://launchpad.net/schooltool.commendation
- Workaround tests failing if translations have been compiled (https://launchpad.net/bugs/79761).
- Fixed crashes when term title is "First" or "Last" (https://launchpad.net/bugs/485639).


1.6.0b1 (2011-04-18)
--------------------

New features
++++++++++++

- Added report package (https://launchpad.net/bugs/429588)
  - New Manage->Reports page listing all available reports.
  - New reportLink directive for registering reports.
  - Copied translations from gradebook.
- Removed 'Report a bug on Launchpad' link from the footer
- Include meta.zcml of plugins first to allow them have optional dependencies.
- Updated translations.


1.6.0a1 (2011-02-23)
--------------------

New features
++++++++++++

- Added boolean demographic fields.
- Added demographics for resources.
- Added limit keys property to demographic fields.
- Created group-aware (teacher, student, administrator) person add views.
- Use Liberation fonts instead of non-free Microsoft fonts (https://launchpad.net/bugs/371655).
  You have to edit schooltool.conf and change msttcorefonts to ttf-liberation to
  re-enable PDF generation.
- Update included jQuery to 1.5 (https://launchpad.net/bugs/588645).
- Developer documentation can be generated from source.

Cleanup
+++++++

- Removed obsolete dependencies, support upgrading from schooltool >= 1.0 only.
- Removed obsolete config keys.
- Renamed the default schooltool application to schooltool.standard.


SchoolTool Gradebook
====================

0.9.0 (2011-04-25)
------------------

Improvements
++++++++++++

- Make gradebook.js static thus greatly improving Gradebook performance.
- Reports action menus were moved to schooltool 1.6.0b1. Register our reports
  using the new ``reportLink`` directive.
- Add meta.zcml to support making this plugin optional.
- Added ``printGradebook`` helper to print the gradebook in ftests.
- Make dependency on schooltool.lyceum.journal optional (https://launchpad.net/bugs/768885).

Bug fixes
+++++++++

- Removed width restriction on names in layout report card view (https://launchpad.net/bugs/643700)
- Fixed linked column forms to use activity categories properly (https://launchpad.net/bugs/703078)
- Fixed the Detailed Student Report to show data only from the selected term and not the whole school year
- Save due_date attribute in New Activity form (https://launchpad.net/bugs/700520)

- Update translations.


0.9.0a1 (2011-02-23)
--------------------

- Fixed default category selection for new activity form (https://launchpad.net/bugs/562875)
- Sort student names in the gradebook according to locale.
- Split and improve functional tests.


SchoolTool Lyceum Journal
=========================

0.7.2 (2011-04-18)
------------------

- Add meta.zcml to support making this plugin optional.
- Update translations.

