1.7 Release Notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SchoolTool Release
==================

1.7.0 (unreleased)
------------------

Oneiric Beta 2.

- Drop dependencies:

  + zope.app.zcmlfiles
  + zope.app.rotterdam
  + zope.app.zopeappgenerations
  + zope.app.authentication
  + zope.pluggableauth


SchoolTool
==========

1.7.0 (2011-09-15)
------------------

New features
++++++++++++

- Linked sections view for a section, allowing to extend a section to another term
  or link an existing section (https://launchpad.net/bugs/424498)
- XLS importer now automatically links sections with same ID that are marked to link

Cleanup
+++++++

- Removed help (https://launchpad.net/bugs/789157)
- Removed school setup data framework (https://launchpad.net/bugs/307237)
- Made ``zope.app.apidoc`` dependency optional, it is only useful for
  developers. Add ``schooltool [apidoc]`` to package:eggs in buildout.cfg
  if you want API Docs.
- Remove dependency on ``zope.app.zcmlfiles`` and many others implied by it.


1.6.1 (2011-09-14)
------------------

- Add paste.ini_tmpl to .tar.gz to fix start-schooltool-instance not creating
  the required paste.ini file.

  NOTE: run ``make-schooltool-instance instance`` to fix `instance` if it does
  not start.

- Allowed non-integer values for course credits (https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/488376)
- Add School Year copies all course attributes (https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/785994)
- Fixed XLS import crashes:

  + Username is a number (https://launchpad.net/bugs/801870)
  + No file selected for import
  + Section timetables without resources (https://launchpad.net/bugs/839031)
  + Empty sections or groups (https://launchpad.net/bugs/382566)

- Update translations.


SchoolTool Gradebook
====================

0.9.1 (2011-07-04)
------------------

New features
++++++++++++

- External activity source for journal average.
- Absences and tardies columns in the gradebook (hidden by default).
- Hide/Unhide deployed report sheets (https://launchpad.net/bugs/788323).

Bugfixes
++++++++

- Move custom score systems to a new container. Fixes crash on startup
  if gradebook has been disabled after use (https://lauchpad.net/bugs/717277).
- Run functional tests without journal, add separate tests that need journal to
  another layer (https://launchpad.net/bugs/783540).
- Fixed crash when there were scores only for non-weighted activities (https://launchpad.net/bugs/801121).
- Fixed unhide worksheets when all the worksheets are hidden (https://launchpad.net/bugs/788307).


SchoolTool Lyceum Journal
=========================


SchoolTool Intervention
=======================

0.5.0 (unreleased)
------------------

- Replaced student ids in intervention objects with relationship properties
- Reorganized code for simplicity of reading
- Added tests to more completely cover the code
- Converted catalog to new style
- Made dependency on schooltool.gradebook optional
- Fix crash in student search with non-ascii characters (https://launchpad.net/bugs/738351) 

