1.9 Release Notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1.9, better known as flourish_ series, features a redesigned user interface with
much improved navigation, new branding and colors, rewritten timetables, new
tables for journal and gradebook, and other new features. This work is now in
its final stages and will become the `schooltool 2.0`_ release.

.. _flourish: https://launchpad.net/schooltool/flourish
.. _schooltool 2.0: https://launchpad.net/schooltool/+milestone/2.0


1.9.2 (2011-11-04)
==================

Flourish bugfixes.

- Make sandbox with virtualenv. Fixes bootstrap with Python 2.7.


SchoolTool 1.9.2 (2011-11-04)
-----------------------------

- Group sections by term in calendar (https://launchpad.net/bugs/872289)
- Terms are listed upside down (https://launchpad.net/bugs/872240)
- Moved Demographics into General Information accordion
- Added two "Other" contact fields (https://launchpad.net/bugs/874568)
- User information doesn't show username (https://launchpad.net/bugs/545767)
- Username in login bar should go to user home (https://launchpad.net/bugs/868394)
- No language selector in flourish (https://launchpad.net/bugs/868397)
- Many calendaring fixes
- Updated translations.

Export
++++++

- XLS import of boolean or required demo fields (https://launchpad.net/bugs/859424)


SchoolTool Gradebook 1.9.2 (2011-11-02)
---------------------------------------

- Fixed the overzealous security checks to improve performance (https://lauchpad.net/bugs/561217)
- Add a link from Section to Gradebook (https://lauchpad.net/bugs/868426)
- Fix Gradebook breadcrumb (https://lauchpad.net/bugs/868431)
- Updated translations


SchoolTool Lyceum Journal 1.9.2 (2011-10-28)
--------------------------------------------

- Fix saving attendance/grades for months other than first (https://launchpad.net/bugs/879425)
- Fix upgrading from versions earlier than 1.9 (https://launchpad.net/bugs/859708)
- Minimize amount of permission checks for performance reasons (https://launchpad.net/bugs/879402)
- Section stays the same when switching between Gradebook and Journal (https://launchpad.net/bugs/661240)
- Selenium testing support
- Update translations


SchoolTool Intervention 1.9.2 (2011-10-28)
------------------------------------------

- Updated translations


SchoolTool Devtools 0.6.3 (2011-10-12)
--------------------------------------

- Fix import errors left in previous release.


1.9.1 (2011-10-06)
==================

Flourish beta.

- Fully translatable.
- Selenium tests support.


SchoolTool 1.9.1 (2011-10-07)
-----------------------------

- Fully translatable.
- Experimental implementation of Selenium testing API.
- Fixed or disabled some tests.
- Page title.
- Updated translations.

Export
++++++

- Added small sample data xls.
- Added boolean and date demo field support to xls import.
- Fixed export of booleans bug (https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/796791)


SchoolTool Gradebook 1.9.1 (2011-10-06)
---------------------------------------

- Fully translatable
- Updated translations


SchoolTool Intervention 1.9.1 (2011-10-06)
------------------------------------------

- Created student interventions PDF (https://launchpad.net/bugs/541498)
- Fully translatable
- Updated translations (es_SV, lt, nl and pt_BR already translated)


SchoolTool Lyceum Journal 1.9.1 (2011-10-06)
--------------------------------------------

- Fully translatable
- Update translations


SchoolTool Devtools 0.6.1 (2011-10-06)
--------------------------------------

- Restore support for python << 2.6, move selenium dependent code to
  webdriver.py


SchoolTool Devtools 0.6 (2011-10-05)
------------------------------------

- Selenium test runner recipe
- Create a http://launchpad.net/schooltool.devtools project


1.9.0 (2011-09-25)
==================

Flourish alpha.

First release of "flourish" summer sprint work, featuring a totally new user
interface.


SchoolTool Lyceum Journal 1.9.0 (2011-09-25)
--------------------------------------------

New skin for SchoolTool 1.9 (flourish) and many other changes.


SchoolTool Intervention 1.9.0 (2011-09-23)
------------------------------------------

New skin for SchoolTool 1.9 (flourish) and many other changes.


SchoolTool Gradebook 1.9.0 (2011-09-22)
---------------------------------------

New skin for SchoolTool 1.9 (flourish) and many other changes.

Cleanup
+++++++

- Move categories from z3c.optionstorage to a simple container.


SchoolTool 1.9.0 (2011-09-21)
-----------------------------

This is a first release from "flourish" branch that was being worked on
tirelessly since June. 

It features a new, much improved look and navigation, a total redesign.

There are too many changes to list.

Export
++++++

- XLS import/export of contacts (https://launchpad.net/bugs/608873)

API changes
+++++++++++

- Timetables rewrite
- Pluggable traverser refactoring, traversers lost redundant request parameter
- New `flourish` content, viewlet, page, breadcrumbs, resourceLibrary and
  ZCML directives for them.
