:tocdepth: 2

SchoolTool 2.3 Release Notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SchoolTool 2.3 features a new gradebook/journal grid that is faster and supports large
number of sheets, improved XLS import/export, and many fixes.

New plugins
===========

SchoolTool CanDo 0.3 (2012-10-19)
---------------------------------

CanDo is a complete system for tracking skills, competencies, standards, or any similar set of student outcomes.  

* Create documents specifying student skills, standards or outcomes via spreadsheet import or through the web interface.

* Associate groups of skills with courses automatically or manually.

* Create projects with unique combinations of skills.

* Assess student skills through a familiar gradebook-style interface.

* Track the history of student skill achievement across multiple sections and school years.

* Teachers and administators can generate graphical reports by student, section or teacher.

* Skill scores can be integrated into SchoolTool's point based gradebook.

https://launchpad.net/schooltool.cando

Included in default install.


SchoolTool Virginia 0.3 (2012-10-19)
------------------------------------

CanDo extensions for schools in Virginia state.

https://launchpad.net/schooltool.virginia


SchoolTool LDAP 1.0 (2012-09-21)
--------------------------------

LDAP authentication plugin for SchoolTool.

https://launchpad.net/schooltool.ldap


2.3 (2012-10-19)
================

Final release to go with Ubuntu 12.10.

SchoolTool 2.3.0 (2012-10-19)
-----------------------------

Bugfixes
++++++++

- Update scheduled calendar event titles on section title change (https://launchpad.net/bugs/899368)
- Allow student's instructors edit his contact's data (https://launchpad.net/bugs/479336)
- Schedule for all terms at once (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1047266)


SchoolTool Gradebook 2.3.0 (2012-10-19)
---------------------------------------

- Fix score history when first grade is unscored

SchoolTool Journal 2.3.0 (2012-10-19)
-------------------------------------

- Fix exception in student journal when grade is not a number (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1065474)

SchoolTool Intervention 2.3.0 (2012-10-19)
------------------------------------------

- Update style of Done links


2.3rc (2012-10-09)
==================

SchoolTool 2.2.4 (2012-10-09)
-----------------------------

New features
++++++++++++

- School logo (https://launchpad.net/bugs/314151)
- Photos for contacts (https://launchpad.net/bugs/970201)
- Highlight today in calendars (https://launchpad.net/bugs/79865)
- Done links now look like buttons
- New script, schooltool-server, to enable --pack and --restore-password
  commands (https://launchpad.net/bugs/505824)

Bugfixes
++++++++

- SectionTimetables sheet doesn't add calendar events (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1061385)
- Log In button should remember where you came from (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1039194)
- Permission fixes
- Updated translations.


SchoolTool Gradebook 2.2.1 (2012-10-09)
---------------------------------------

- Cross linked sections break gradebook (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1052931)
- Fixed Edit Activity submit
- Total and Average calculation shouldn't use the minimum score of the activity
  (https://launchpad.net/bugs/966426)
- Updated translations


SchoolTool Journal 2.2.1 (2012-10-08)
-------------------------------------

- Journal for students (https://launchpad.net/bugs/882663)
- Update Dutch translation


2.3b (2012-09-13)
=================

SchoolTool 2.2.3 (2012-09-13)
-----------------------------

- Section add form needs title and location (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1042267)
- Person links in group view return to group


SchoolTool 2.2.2 (2012-08-31)
-----------------------------

- We need person filters on the group page (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1038845)
- Ignore trailing space in ID cells (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1042773)
- Unrecognized day id error on localized XLS import (https://launchpad.net/bugs/901267)
- Updated translations


SchoolTool 2.2.1 (2012-08-15)
-----------------------------

XLS
+++

- We need to allow id cells to be numeric again on import (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1035036)
- Handle empty Weekends table (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1035969)
- Skip empty rows if there is only one table in the sheet (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1035088)

Bugfixes
++++++++

- Users cannot see their own photo (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1007145)


2.3a (2012-08-08)
=================

First releases of rewritten gradebook/journal grid and other work done over the
last three months.

SchoolTool Gradebook 2.2.0 (2012-08-08)
---------------------------------------

Features
++++++++

- Gradebook refactoring
- New style for worksheet tabs that allows for many sheets and long titles
- Hide sidebar button
- Score history
- Updated translations

Bugfixes
++++++++

- Text area smaller than cell (https://launchpad.net/bugs/921750)
- Red cells don't revert to green (https://launchpad.net/bugs/921694)
- Fix a rare failure when upgrading from gradebook <= 0.9.0 (https://launchpad.net/bugs/995615)
- Report Layout displays a server error (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1008176)
- Set short spreadsheet names in Gradebook Export xls (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1024814)

Developer tools
+++++++++++++++

- Selenium tests and testing extensions


SchoolTool Journal 2.2.0 (2012-08-08)
-------------------------------------

- Refactored month navigation to match new-style gradebook
- Hide sidebar button
- Update translations


SchoolTool 2.2.0 (2012-08-07)
-----------------------------

New features
++++++++++++

- Refactored gradebook/journal javascript and style
- Add teachers column sections list
- Add filter by course and term to sections list
- Show term details in term view

Old features
++++++++++++

- Show sections and groups of a person in a tree, grouped by term, like in old skin.
- List sections in course view (https://launchpad.net/bugs/868396)

XLS
+++

- Added course_id, government_id and credits to Courses sheet import/export.
- New sections sheets to replace section sheets per term (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1020836)
- Remove the old Sections exporter and tests (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1020837).
  Old section import still supported.
- New LinkedSectionImport sheet for import only (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1020838)
- Import errors grouped by sheet and error type, displayed in a textarea
  (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1020839)
- ResourceImporter needs to process description cells (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1020840)
- Exporters must skip sections with no courses (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1020842)

Bugfixes
++++++++

- Timetables evolution fails on exception days (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1003834)
- Advisory accordion doesn't show advisees (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1005989)
- Fix upgrade from schooltool < 1.5 crashing on missing levels (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1007361)
- Allow teachers to see attributes of all sections and resources.
- Remove demographics when person is deleted.

Translations
++++++++++++

- Updated translations
- Added Bosnian, Croatian, Slovenian translations

Development tools
+++++++++++++++++

- Selenium screenshots and downloads
- XLS file testing helpers
