:tocdepth: 2

SchoolTool 2.4 Release Notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SchoolTool 2.4 is scheduled for April release of Ubuntu 13.04. See
`Release Schedule <https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseSchedule>`_ for
dates.

New features
============

- New design of PDF reports
- Ability to render forms and tables to PDF
- Average, total and category weights in report sheets
- Section roster, person profile, and resources reports
- Three new reports for CanDo


2.4b1 (2013-04-17)
==================

- Local buildout.cfg.  Your changes to buildout.cfg will not be committed.
- Update to zc.buildout 1.7.1
- Remove hurry.query dependency


SchoolTool 2.4b1 (2013-04-17)
-----------------------------

Bugfixes
++++++++

- Fixed setting up section schedules for multiple terms
- Home and Calendar tabs work incorrectly when looking at other persons (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1166926)
- Prevented XLS importer from crashing with non-xls files (https://launchpad.net/bugs/904968)

Translations
++++++++++++

- Updated translations, added Thai. Special thanks to Vitali Oleshkevich, who
  has completed both Russian and Ukrainian translations!


SchoolTool Intervention 2.4b1 (2013-04-15)
------------------------------------------

- Added message subject to student's view
- Updated translations, added Thai
- Requires Python 2.6


SchoolTool Journal 2.4b1 (2013-04-04)
-------------------------------------

- Fix journals when section out-of-term-bounds schedules overlap (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1104190)
- Journals now display all scheduled dates for selected section
- Tab redirects to a section only if current user can access it (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1155226)
- Added Thai translation


SchoolTool Gradebook 2.4b1 (2013-04-04)
---------------------------------------

- Tab redirects to a section only if current user can access it (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1155226)
- Added Thai translation


SchoolTool CanDo 0.6.2 (2013-03-25)
-----------------------------------

- Added section student competency report
- Fixed skills sorting in Set Required/Visible view
- Fixed permissions of project view


SchoolTool Virginia 0.6.1 (2013-03-25)
--------------------------------------

- Added frozen table headers to the VA completion reports
- Fixed VA section report attainment calculation


SchoolTool Virginia 0.6 (2013-03-20)
------------------------------------

- Updated completion reports:

  + Added number of required skills
  + Removed average percentages
  + Render only when submit button is pressed, to allow changing filters first
  + Added course filter
  + Added totals column

- Download required skills completion report as PDF


SchoolTool CanDo 0.6.1 (2013-03-20)
-----------------------------------

- Fixed permissions of popup menus and competency report
- Updated translations, added Thai


2.4a3 (2013-02-26)
==================

SchoolTool Virginia 0.5.1 (2013-02-26)
--------------------------------------

- Fixed reports for strange section/person ids.


SchoolTool CanDo 0.6 (2013-02-25)
---------------------------------

- Fix section skills with no equivalent course skill
- Sorted by label and title in add skill view for projects
- Moved "Skills Export" option from School to Documents view (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1126577)
- Moved "Import Skill Data" option from School to Documents view (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1131436)
- Changed string "skillset" to "skill set" (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1131376)
- Removed title from tables in index views for document and node (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1049966)


2.4a2 (2013-02-19)
==================

- Sync versions with Raring Alpha 2.

SchoolTool 2.4a2 (2013-02-18)
-----------------------------

- Move User fieldset up in Add person page (https://launchpad.net/bugs/896848)
- Removed unsupported translations: af, bn, fo, et, hu, te.
- Updated translations.


SchoolTool Gradebook 2.4a2 (2013-02-19)
---------------------------------------

- Remove Download Gradebook CSV
- Updated Printable Gradebook style


SchoolTool CanDo 0.5.1 (2013-02-18)
-----------------------------------

- New-style CanDo Gradebook report.
- Added student's Section Competencies report.
- Added student's Certificate of Competency report.


2.4a1 (2013-01-23)
==================

- Removed dependency on zope.app.content

- Removed optional dependencies:

  + zope.app.apidoc
  + zope.app.file
  + zope.app.onlinehelp
  + zope.app.preference
  + zope.app.tree
  + zope.preference


SchoolTool 2.4a1 (2013-01-23)
-----------------------------

- Javascript for entering comments in gradebook cells.
- Support table grouping by column.
- Refactor out makeFormatter from table render methods.
- Updated translations.

Reports
+++++++

- New PDF page design and implementation.
- Render forms, tables, and grids to RML (PDF).
- Add section roster, person profile, and resources reports.

Development tools
+++++++++++++++++

- Removed API Docs and Introspector


SchoolTool Gradebook 2.4a1 (2013-01-23)
---------------------------------------

- Remake "Printable Worksheet" as a new style PDF
- Report sheet templates now have category weights
- Display total/average in deployed report sheets
- Added category to report sheet template activity add/edit views
- Added report sheet average to report card layout, pdf view
- Removed hidden deployed worksheets from dropdown in layout activity add views
- Do not give extra credit with discrete scoresystems
- Case-insensitive score entry
- Modal for entering scores in gradebook cells of comment activities
- Updated translations


SchoolTool CanDo 0.5 (2013-01-23)
---------------------------------

- Updated tables to use new table formatters.


SchoolTool Virginia 0.5 (2013-01-23)
------------------------------------

- Updated tables to use new table formatters.
