source/admin-passwd.rst, before:

Changing the Management Password
================================

The first step is to log in as the site manager, do a little basic customization and create a user account for yourself.  So first go to http://localhost:7080.  You should see a blank calendar like this:

   .. image:: images/admin-passwd-0.png

Click **Log In** at the right end of the gray bar, and click the **Log in** button after entering "manager" as the **Username** and "schooltool" as the **Password**:

   .. image:: images/admin-passwd-1.png

Next you should change the manager password.  First click on **Home** at the top of the screen:

   .. image:: images/admin-passwd-2.png

Then click on **Password** under settings in the left sidebar:

   .. image:: images/admin-passwd-3.png

Enter the current password ("schooltool"), enter a new one (twice), and click **Apply**:

   .. image:: images/admin-passwd-4.png

Even if you don't plan to make your SchoolTool server's web pages accessible from another computer, you should set manager and user passwords to prevent another person with physical access to your computer from accessing your SchoolTool data with the default password.

Commit message:

Updated screenshots for admin-passwd.rst to Ubuntu 12.04 LTS (Precise).

source/admin-passwd.rst, after:

Changing the Management Password
================================

The first step is to log in as the site manager, do a little basic customization and create a user account for yourself.  So first go to http://localhost:7080.  You should see a blank calendar like this:

   .. image:: images/admin-passwd-0.png

Click **Log In** at the right end of the gray bar, and click the **Log in** button after entering "manager" as the **Username** and "schooltool" as the **Password**:

   .. image:: images/admin-passwd-1.png

Next you should change the manager password.  First click on **Home** at the top of the screen:

   .. image:: images/admin-passwd-2.png

Then click on **Password** under settings in the left sidebar:

   .. image:: images/admin-passwd-3.png

Enter the current password ("schooltool"), enter a new one (twice), and click **Apply**:

   .. image:: images/admin-passwd-4.png

If all goes well, you should be greeted with a dialog confirming that the password change was successful:

   .. image:: images/admin-passwd-5.png

Even if you don't plan to make your SchoolTool server's web pages accessible from another computer, you should set manager and user passwords to prevent another person with physical access to your computer from accessing your SchoolTool data with the default password.
