source/custom-css.rst, before:

Customizing SchoolTool CSS
==========================

CSS Overrides
-------------

For sites that wish to change the default appearance of the SchoolTool
administrative interface, it is possible to override SchoolTool's Cascading
Style Sheets with your own customized styles.

In the past, this could only be accomplished by modifying SchoolTool core files,
which was undesirable because changes would be lost during upgrades.

The ``custom-css`` Directory
````````````````````````````

As of SchoolTool 2.8.2, there is now a custom-css directory for your custom
styles and images, located at::

    /etc/schooltool/standard/custom-css/

Because the ``custom-css`` directory is located in ``/etc/schooltool/`` (along
with configuration files), any custom styles and images stored here will remain
persistent across upgrades.

The ``custom.css`` File
```````````````````````

By default, the ``custom-css`` directory will contain one file::

   /etc/schooltool/standard/custom-css/custom.css

Add your CSS rules here, by logging on to the server via ssh and editing the
file using your favorite text editor.

Adding Resources
````````````````

Because the entire ``custom-css`` directory gets registered as a resource
library, any file added to this directory may be accessed in your custom CSS.

For example, if you upload ``image.png`` to the ``custom-css`` directory by
using rsync or another secure file transfer utility, you can access that
resource at ``/@@/schooltool.flourish.custom/image.png``.

However, we recommend using relative URLs in your CSS, for clear and concise
code. In this way, using ``url("image.png")`` will automatically resolve to
``/@@/schooltool.flourish.custom/image.png``.


Requirements
````````````

Overriding SchoolTool's default styles and images with your own customizations
will require administrative access to the server. It will also require
knowledge of HTML and CSS, but no Python programming experience is necessary.

Examples
--------

The easiest way to determine what CSS rules to override is to use a DOM
inspector, such as that provided by Google Chrome's built-in Developer Tools
or the Page Inspector provided by Mozilla Firefox Developer Tools (in either
browser, right-click on a webpage element and select "Inspect Element" from the
context menu). 

   .. image:: images/custom-css-01.png

This will allow you to use the inspector to examine and modify the structure and
layout of a webpage, so that you can pinpoint the CSS rules needed to modify the
appearance of a page element without the need to search through all the CSS
files included in the SchoolTool source code.

   .. image:: images/custom-css-02.png

In this example, we are inspecting the ``<h1 class="brand">`` element in the
SchoolTool page header, which contains the text and image elements of the
SchoolTool logo.

Changing Colors
```````````````

To change the background color of the header from the default (hexadecimal RGB
#008c93) to another color specified by hex value or name (in this example,
green), edit the ``custom.css`` file::

   sudo vim /etc/schooltool/standard/custom-css/custom.css

and add the following block of CSS code::

   .header ul.navigation {
     background-color: green
   }

Then load any page of the SchoolTool administrative interface in the browser to
see the new green background color in the header.

   .. image:: images/custom-css-03.png

Replacing SchoolTool Logo (image)
`````````````````````````````````

To replace the default SchoolTool logo with a custom ``logo.png`` image, we will
first need to hide the default logo. Edit the ``custom.css`` file::

   sudo vim /etc/schooltool/standard/custom-css/custom.css

and add the following block of CSS code::

   .header > h1.brand span, .header > h1.brand img {
     display: none;
   }

Then, upload the desired logo image into the ``custom-css`` directory. In this
example, we will use the PEAS logo, which is a transparent PNG image 195 pixels
wide and 40 pixels high; your organization's logo may need to be resized to fit
tidily into the site template.

This may be accomplished via ``rsync`` or another secure file transfer utility::

   rsync -e ssh logo.png root@schooltoolserver:/etc/schooltool/standard/custom-css/

Be sure to replace **schooltoolserver** in the example above with the IP address
or hostname of your organization's schooltool server. You will also need to
supply the root user's password, and OpenSSH must be configured to allow root
access for this method to work.

A more secure alternate method would eliminate the need for ssh root logins by
pulling the image onto the server using an account with sudo privileges. Since
the PEAS logo is already published elsewhere online, we can use the ``wget``
utility to copy the image from the web into the ``custom-css`` working
directory::

   sudo wget http://dev.schooltool.org/peas/@@/schooltool.flourish.custom/logo.png

Finally, edit the ``custom.css`` file::

   sudo vim /etc/schooltool/standard/custom-css/custom.css

and add the following block of CSS code::

   .header > h1.brand {
     background: url("logo.png") no-repeat scroll right top rgba(0, 0, 0, 0);
     height: 40px;
     width: 195px;
   }

This will set the ``logo.png`` image as the background for the ``<h1
class="brand">`` element in the SchoolTool page header.

   .. image:: images/custom-css-04.png

Replacing SchoolTool Logo (text)
````````````````````````````````

Commit message:

Started third example in custom-css.rst

source/custom-css.rst, after:

Customizing SchoolTool CSS
==========================

CSS Overrides
-------------

For sites that wish to change the default appearance of the SchoolTool
administrative interface, it is possible to override SchoolTool's Cascading
Style Sheets with your own customized styles.

In the past, this could only be accomplished by modifying SchoolTool core files,
which was undesirable because changes would be lost during upgrades.

The ``custom-css`` Directory
````````````````````````````

As of SchoolTool 2.8.2, there is now a custom-css directory for your custom
styles and images, located at::

    /etc/schooltool/standard/custom-css/

Because the ``custom-css`` directory is located in ``/etc/schooltool/`` (along
with configuration files), any custom styles and images stored here will remain
persistent across upgrades.

The ``custom.css`` File
```````````````````````

By default, the ``custom-css`` directory will contain one file::

   /etc/schooltool/standard/custom-css/custom.css

Add your CSS rules here, by logging on to the server via ssh and editing the
file using your favorite text editor.

Adding Resources
````````````````

Because the entire ``custom-css`` directory gets registered as a resource
library, any file added to this directory may be accessed in your custom CSS.

For example, if you upload ``image.png`` to the ``custom-css`` directory by
using rsync or another secure file transfer utility, you can access that
resource at ``/@@/schooltool.flourish.custom/image.png``.

However, we recommend using relative URLs in your CSS, for clear and concise
code. In this way, using ``url("image.png")`` will automatically resolve to
``/@@/schooltool.flourish.custom/image.png``.


Requirements
````````````

Overriding SchoolTool's default styles and images with your own customizations
will require administrative access to the server. It will also require
knowledge of HTML and CSS, but no Python programming experience is necessary.

Examples
--------

The easiest way to determine what CSS rules to override is to use a DOM
inspector, such as that provided by Google Chrome's built-in Developer Tools
or the Page Inspector provided by Mozilla Firefox Developer Tools (in either
browser, right-click on a webpage element and select "Inspect Element" from the
context menu). 

   .. image:: images/custom-css-01.png

This will allow you to use the inspector to examine and modify the structure and
layout of a webpage, so that you can pinpoint the CSS rules needed to modify the
appearance of a page element without the need to search through all the CSS
files included in the SchoolTool source code.

   .. image:: images/custom-css-02.png

In this example, we are inspecting the ``<h1 class="brand">`` element in the
SchoolTool page header, which contains the text and image elements of the
SchoolTool logo.

Changing Colors
```````````````

To change the background color of the header from the default (hexadecimal RGB
#008c93) to another color specified by hex value or name (in this example,
green), edit the ``custom.css`` file::

   sudo vim /etc/schooltool/standard/custom-css/custom.css

and add the following block of CSS code::

   .header ul.navigation {
     background-color: green
   }

Then load any page of the SchoolTool administrative interface in the browser to
see the new green background color in the header.

   .. image:: images/custom-css-03.png

Replacing SchoolTool Logo (image)
`````````````````````````````````

To replace the default SchoolTool logo with a custom ``logo.png`` image, we will
first need to hide the default logo. Edit the ``custom.css`` file::

   sudo vim /etc/schooltool/standard/custom-css/custom.css

and add the following block of CSS code::

   .header > h1.brand span, .header > h1.brand img {
     display: none;
   }

Then, upload the desired logo image into the ``custom-css`` directory. In this
example, we will use the PEAS logo, which is a transparent PNG image 195 pixels
wide and 40 pixels high; your organization's logo may need to be resized to fit
tidily into the site template.

This may be accomplished via ``rsync`` or another secure file transfer utility::

   rsync -e ssh logo.png root@schooltoolserver:/etc/schooltool/standard/custom-css/

NOTE: This command would be issued from a workstation, with the ``logo.png``
file in the working directory.

Be sure to replace **schooltoolserver** in the example above with the IP address
or hostname of your organization's schooltool server. You will also need to
supply the root user's password, and OpenSSH must be configured to allow root
access (generally not a good idea) for this method to work.

A more secure alternate method would eliminate the need for ssh root logins by
pulling the image onto the server using an account with sudo privileges. Since
the PEAS logo is already published elsewhere online, we can use the ``wget``
utility to copy the image from the web into the ``custom-css`` working
directory::

   sudo wget http://dev.schooltool.org/peas/@@/schooltool.flourish.custom/logo.png

Finally, edit the ``custom.css`` file::

   sudo vim /etc/schooltool/standard/custom-css/custom.css

and add the following block of CSS code::

   .header > h1.brand {
     background: url("logo.png") no-repeat scroll right top rgba(0, 0, 0, 0);
     height: 40px;
     width: 195px;
   }

This will set the ``logo.png`` image as the background for the ``<h1
class="brand">`` element in the SchoolTool page header.

   .. image:: images/custom-css-04.png

Replacing SchoolTool Logo (text)
````````````````````````````````

If you'd like to use text instead of a background image, this is also possible
using the ``::after`` and ``::before`` CSS selectors:

    * `::after <http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/sel_after.asp>`_
    * `::before <http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/sel_before.asp>`_

Again, we will first need to hide the default logo. Edit the ``custom.css``
file::

   sudo vim /etc/schooltool/standard/custom-css/custom.css

and add the following block of CSS code::

   .header > h1.brand span, .header > h1.brand img {
     display: none;
   }

Then, edit the ``custom.css`` file::

   sudo vim /etc/schooltool/standard/custom-css/custom.css

and add the following block of CSS code::

   ???
   PROFIT!
