source/dev_sandbox.rst, before:

Developing SchoolTool
=====================

Quickstart
----------

"But I just want to look at it!"

Well, this is not a way to develop SchoolTool, but it will give you a quick taste::

  ~$ bzr co lp:schooltool schooltool
  ~$ cd schooltool

The **schooltool** package just contains the "core" functionality of SchoolTool: gets the server up and running, lets you define the structure of the school and the calendar.

To *use* SchoolTool for anything (beyond calendaring) you need plugins.

Enable plugins (optional).  Note, that we currently **do not support** disabling the plugins.  That is, you can't enable the gradebook, use it a while, and then remove the gradebook module.
So, you'll need to delete your instance (along with all the data, sadly) to run again without a plugin.

To enable plugins, edit buildout.cfg to contain::

  eggs += schooltool
          schooltool.gradebook
          schooltool.lyceum.journal
          schooltool.intervention

Build and run schooltool::

  ~/schooltool$ sudo make ubuntu-environment
  ~/schooltool$ make run

Open http://localhost:7080/ in your browser.

If you want to change enabled plugins, delete your instance (be careful with this rm command):

  ~/schooltool$ rm -rf instance/

Edit buildout.cfg, re-build and run SchoolTool again::

  ~/schooltool$ make update
  ~/schooltool$ make run


Setting up a development sandbox
--------------------------------

Set your buildout eggs and cache directories
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Create ~/.buildout/default.cfg and add::

  [buildout]
  eggs-directory = /home/*your-user*/.buildout/eggs
  download-cache = /home/*your-user*/.buildout/cache
  extends-cache = /home/*your-user*/.buildout/extends

Buildout does not understand the unix ~ notation, so use the full
path.

Create the cache directories::

  ~$ mkdir ~/.buildout/cache
  ~$ mkdir ~/.buildout/extends


Create the shared repository
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If possible get the newest version of bzr, at least 1.6 is required.

(http://bazaar-vcs.org/DistroDownloads)

Create the bzr shared repository::

  ~$ mkdir schooltool_sandbox
  ~$ bzr init-repo schooltool_sandbox

(http://bazaar-vcs.org/SharedRepositoryTutorial)


Working on a project
--------------------

For a list of projects, see::

  https://launchpad.net/schooltool-project

Get the project you want to work on
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let's assume you worked on schooltool.gradebook super ajax feature and your launchpad
username is "ideveloper".  Parts you are expected to change depending on who you are or what you
are working on are underlined::

  ~$ cd schooltool_sandbox
  ~/schooltool_sandbox$ bzr branch lp:schooltool.gradebook schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax
                                                                               -----------
  ~/schooltool_sandbox$ cd schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax

It's slow for the first copy of the project.  Shared repository at least speeds up the second branch.

Ensure you have all needed dev tools::

  ~/schooltool_sandbox/schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax$ sudo make ubuntu-environment

Now, build the project::

  ~/schooltool_sandbox/schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax$ make

Congratulations, you can run the server now::

  ~/schooltool_sandbox/schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax$ make run


Develop your feature
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Push your branch to Launchpad::

  ~/schooltool_sandbox/schooltool.gradebook$ bzr push lp:~ideveloper/schooltool/schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax
                                                          ----------            -------------------------------

Now you can begin your work.  Commit using ``bzr ci`` diff using ``bzr diff`` update your branch using ``bzr pull``.  Commit often and in small chunks.

Don't forget to update the eggs from time to time to the latest released versions::

  ~/schooltool_sandbox/schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax$ make update


Publishing your changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you worked on a bugfix, now is a good time to link your branch to the bug in Launchpad::

  https://code.launchpad.net/~ideveloper/schooltool/schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax
                             -----------            -------------------------------

Finally, propose a merge (to development focus branch) in the Launchpad branch's page (same link above).

Once it's reviewed, the feature will be merged to trunk and new development eggs will be released.


General guidelines
------------------

**Create a new branch for every feature**

Having every feature and every bugfix in a separate branch allows
reviewing checkins **easier**, because every branch has only 1 goal. If a
bugfix is not complete or it **did not pass the review** - you can
**continue working** on it in that **same branch** so all the related changes
are in the same place and not 20 unrelated checkins apart.  And most importantly,
they are **not mixed with other features**.  It also makes the **backporting** to
older SchoolTool versions a lot easier for the maintainers.

**Work on a single plugin at a time**

Have a separate checkout directory for each project.  Do not modify buildout.cfg
unless you really need to.  Avoid cross-dependencies between plugins.  Select carefully
to which plugin the feature should logically belong to.  Keep things simple.  Thanks!

**Commit often.  Write tests.**

Commit often and in small chunks.  Write/update unit and functional tests to
pass with each commit.  The more you practice this rule, the fewer bugs you'll
eventually make.

If you're fixing an unobvious bug, it's a good idea to write a test that ensures the
bug won't be reimplemented again.


Developing multiple plugins at the same time
-----------------------------------------------------

WARNING: we recommend avoiding this scenario when possible.

Let's assume you want to work on both SchoolTool core and the Gradebook plugin.

First, check out branches (lp:schooltool and lp:schooltool.gradebook) to your sandbox::

  ~/schooltool_sandbox$ bzr branch lp:schooltool schooltool.gradebook_dev
  ~/schooltool_sandbox$ bzr branch lp:schooltool.gradebook schooltool.gradebook_dev

Edit ``buildout.cfg`` in the directory you run the server from (say, schooltool.gradebook_dev).

Change develop to include both SchoolTool and Gradebook::

  develop = . ../schooltool_dev

Check if all desired eggs are included::

  [schooltool]
  eggs += schooltool
          schooltool.gradebook
  <...>

Push both directories to separate branches in Launchpad, request merges on both at the
same time.  I believe it's obvious that dealing with multiple branch merging increases
chances of human error.

Commit message:

Mention that users should install bazaar (dev sandbox page)

source/dev_sandbox.rst, after:

Developing SchoolTool
=====================

SchoolTool uses bazaar VCS.  Be sure to install it first::

  ~$ sudo apt-get install bzr


Quickstart
----------

"But I just want to look at it!"

This is not a preferred way to develop SchoolTool, but it will give you a quick taste::

  ~$ bzr co lp:schooltool schooltool
  ~$ cd schooltool

The **schooltool** package just contains the "core" functionality of SchoolTool: gets the server up and running, lets you define the structure of the school and the calendar.

To *use* SchoolTool for anything (beyond calendaring) you need plugins.

Enable plugins (optional).  Note, that we currently **do not support** disabling the plugins.  That is, you can't enable the gradebook, use it a while, and then remove the gradebook module.
So, you'll need to delete your instance (along with all the data, sadly) to run again without a plugin.

To enable plugins, edit buildout.cfg to contain::

  eggs += schooltool
          schooltool.gradebook
          schooltool.lyceum.journal
          schooltool.intervention

Build and run schooltool::

  ~/schooltool$ sudo make ubuntu-environment
  ~/schooltool$ make run

Open http://localhost:7080/ in your browser.

If you want to change enabled plugins, delete your instance (be careful with this rm command):

  ~/schooltool$ rm -rf instance/

Edit buildout.cfg, re-build and run SchoolTool again::

  ~/schooltool$ make update
  ~/schooltool$ make run


Setting up a development sandbox
--------------------------------

Set your buildout eggs and cache directories
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Create ~/.buildout/default.cfg and add::

  [buildout]
  eggs-directory = /home/*your-user*/.buildout/eggs
  download-cache = /home/*your-user*/.buildout/cache
  extends-cache = /home/*your-user*/.buildout/extends

Buildout does not understand the unix ~ notation, so use the full
path.

Create the cache directories::

  ~$ mkdir ~/.buildout/cache
  ~$ mkdir ~/.buildout/extends


Create the shared repository
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If possible get the newest version of bzr, at least 1.6 is required.

(http://bazaar-vcs.org/DistroDownloads)

Create the bzr shared repository::

  ~$ mkdir schooltool_sandbox
  ~$ bzr init-repo schooltool_sandbox

(http://bazaar-vcs.org/SharedRepositoryTutorial)


Working on a project
--------------------

For a list of projects, see::

  https://launchpad.net/schooltool-project

Get the project you want to work on
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let's assume you worked on schooltool.gradebook super ajax feature and your launchpad
username is "ideveloper".  Parts you are expected to change depending on who you are or what you
are working on are underlined::

  ~$ cd schooltool_sandbox
  ~/schooltool_sandbox$ bzr branch lp:schooltool.gradebook schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax
                                                                               -----------
  ~/schooltool_sandbox$ cd schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax

It's slow for the first copy of the project.  Shared repository at least speeds up the second branch.

Ensure you have all needed dev tools::

  ~/schooltool_sandbox/schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax$ sudo make ubuntu-environment

Now, build the project::

  ~/schooltool_sandbox/schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax$ make

Congratulations, you can run the server now::

  ~/schooltool_sandbox/schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax$ make run


Develop your feature
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Push your branch to Launchpad::

  ~/schooltool_sandbox/schooltool.gradebook$ bzr push lp:~ideveloper/schooltool/schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax
                                                          ----------            -------------------------------

Now you can begin your work.  Commit using ``bzr ci`` diff using ``bzr diff`` update your branch using ``bzr pull``.  Commit often and in small chunks.

Don't forget to update the eggs from time to time to the latest released versions::

  ~/schooltool_sandbox/schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax$ make update


Publishing your changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you worked on a bugfix, now is a good time to link your branch to the bug in Launchpad::

  https://code.launchpad.net/~ideveloper/schooltool/schooltool.gradebook_super_ajax
                             -----------            -------------------------------

Finally, propose a merge (to development focus branch) in the Launchpad branch's page (same link above).

Once it's reviewed, the feature will be merged to trunk and new development eggs will be released.


General guidelines
------------------

**Create a new branch for every feature**

Having every feature and every bugfix in a separate branch allows
reviewing checkins **easier**, because every branch has only 1 goal. If a
bugfix is not complete or it **did not pass the review** - you can
**continue working** on it in that **same branch** so all the related changes
are in the same place and not 20 unrelated checkins apart.  And most importantly,
they are **not mixed with other features**.  It also makes the **backporting** to
older SchoolTool versions a lot easier for the maintainers.

**Work on a single plugin at a time**

Have a separate checkout directory for each project.  Do not modify buildout.cfg
unless you really need to.  Avoid cross-dependencies between plugins.  Select carefully
to which plugin the feature should logically belong to.  Keep things simple.  Thanks!

**Commit often.  Write tests.**

Commit often and in small chunks.  Write/update unit and functional tests to
pass with each commit.  The more you practice this rule, the fewer bugs you'll
eventually make.

If you're fixing an unobvious bug, it's a good idea to write a test that ensures the
bug won't be reimplemented again.


Developing multiple plugins at the same time
-----------------------------------------------------

WARNING: we recommend avoiding this scenario when possible.

Let's assume you want to work on both SchoolTool core and the Gradebook plugin.

First, check out branches (lp:schooltool and lp:schooltool.gradebook) to your sandbox::

  ~/schooltool_sandbox$ bzr branch lp:schooltool schooltool.gradebook_dev
  ~/schooltool_sandbox$ bzr branch lp:schooltool.gradebook schooltool.gradebook_dev

Edit ``buildout.cfg`` in the directory you run the server from (say, schooltool.gradebook_dev).

Change develop to include both SchoolTool and Gradebook::

  develop = . ../schooltool_dev

Check if all desired eggs are included::

  [schooltool]
  eggs += schooltool
          schooltool.gradebook
  <...>

Push both directories to separate branches in Launchpad, request merges on both at the
same time.  I believe it's obvious that dealing with multiple branch merging increases
chances of human error.
