source/fedora.rst, before:

.. _fedora:

Installing SchoolTool on Fedora Linux
-------------------------------------

Currently RPM packages, developed and used by `OLE Nepal <http://www.olenepal.org>`_ for Fedora 9 and 13 are mirrored on `ftp.schooltool.org <http://ftp.schooltool.org/rpms/>`_.

To install the standard SchoolTool distribution on Fedora 9, excecute the following commands in a terminal as a privileged user::

    yum update
    yum install wget
    cd /etc/yum.repos.d/
    wget http://ftp.schooltool.org/rpms/fedora_9.schooltool.repo
    yum update
    yum install schooltool-intervention

This will include all the standard SchoolTool components, the core ``schooltool`` package, ``schooltool-gradebook``, ``schooltool-lyceum-journal`` as well as the many Zope and Python libraries.  These can be installed separately if desired.

To install on Fedora 13, simply replace:: 
    
    wget http://ftp.schooltool.org/rpms/fedora_9.schooltool.repo
    
with::

    wget http://ftp.schooltool.org/rpms/fedora_13.schooltool.repo

To make schooltool start at every boot, execute this command at the terminal as a privileged user::

    chkconfig --add schooltoold
    chkconfig schooltoold on

The Fedora packages are maintained by Abhishek Singh, aks (at) fedoraproject.org.

Continue setup at :ref:`setup-initial`

Commit message:

Added git repository for Fedora.

source/fedora.rst, after:

.. _fedora:

Installing SchoolTool on Fedora Linux
-------------------------------------

Currently RPM packages, developed and used by `OLE Nepal <http://www.olenepal.org>`_ for Fedora 9 and 13 are mirrored on `ftp.schooltool.org <http://ftp.schooltool.org/rpms/>`_.

To install the standard SchoolTool distribution on Fedora 9, excecute the following commands in a terminal as a privileged user::

    yum update
    yum install wget
    cd /etc/yum.repos.d/
    wget http://ftp.schooltool.org/rpms/fedora_9.schooltool.repo
    yum update
    yum install schooltool-intervention

This will include all the standard SchoolTool components, the core ``schooltool`` package, ``schooltool-gradebook``, ``schooltool-lyceum-journal`` as well as the many Zope and Python libraries.  These can be installed separately if desired.

To install on Fedora 13, simply replace:: 
    
    wget http://ftp.schooltool.org/rpms/fedora_9.schooltool.repo
    
with::

    wget http://ftp.schooltool.org/rpms/fedora_13.schooltool.repo

To make schooltool start at every boot, execute this command at the terminal as a privileged user::

    chkconfig --add schooltoold
    chkconfig schooltoold on

The Fedora packages are maintained by Abhishek Singh, aks (at) fedoraproject.org.  The packaging sources (spec files and patches) are available from `this git repository <http://gitorious.org/schooltool-rpm/schooltool-rpm/>`_. 

Continue setup at :ref:`setup-initial`
