source/index.rst, before:


The SchoolTool Book
===================

SchoolTool is free administrative software for schools around the world. The goals of the project are to create a simple turnkey student information system, including demographics, gradebook, attendance, calendaring and reporting for primary and secondary schools, as well as a framework for building customized applications and configurations for individual schools or states.

SchoolTool is built on a 100% open source software stack, written in `Python <http://python.org>`_ using the `Zope 3 <http://zope.org/>`_ framework.

SchoolTool is licensed under the `GNU General Public License, Version 2 <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html>`_.

This document is the primary source of user and developer documentation on SchoolTool.  

For more information:

    * `Homepage <http://schooltool.org/>`_
    * `Launchpad project page <https://launchpad.net/schooltool-project>`_
    * `Mailing List <https://launchpad.net/~schooltoolers>`_
    * IRC channel: #schooltool on freenode.net


Contents:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   features
   release-notes
   install-toc
   initial-configuration-toc
   setup-toc
   spreadsheet
   populating
   gradebook-toc
   administrators
   developers
   editing-this-book
   glossary
   about
   cando

Commit message:

Added screenshots, other last minute updates.

source/index.rst, after:


The SchoolTool Book
===================

SchoolTool: the Global Student Information System
-------------------------------------------------

SchoolTool is a free, open source, web-based student information system for a single school, including student enrollment and demographics, grading and grade reporting, attendance, calendars and intervention tracking.  It is also a framework for building customized applications and configurations for individual schools or states.

SchoolTool has strong support for translation, localization and automated deployment and updates via the Ubuntu Linux installer and package management system.

SchoolTool is built on a 100% open source software stack, written in `Python <http://python.org>`_ using the `Zope 3 <http://zope.org/>`_ framework.

SchoolTool is licensed under the `GNU General Public License, Version 2 <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html>`_.

This document is the primary source of user and developer documentation on SchoolTool.  

For more information:

    * `Homepage <http://schooltool.org/>`_
    * `Launchpad project page <https://launchpad.net/schooltool-project>`_
    * `Mailing List <https://launchpad.net/~schooltoolers>`_
    * IRC channel: #schooltool on freenode.net


Contents:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   features
   screenshots
   release-notes
   install-toc
   initial-configuration-toc
   setup-toc
   spreadsheet
   populating
   gradebook-toc
   administrators
   developers
   editing-this-book
   glossary
   about
   cando
