source/individual.rst, before:

.. _individual:

SchoolTool for an Individual Teacher
====================================

SchoolTool is primarily designed as a server application to be used by a whole school.  However, it can be easily installed on a laptop or desktop pc running `Ubuntu Linux <http://ubuntu.com>`_ and used by a single teacher.  From the users point of view SchoolTool's web interface will work the same as it does for a whole school.  

With light load -- one user -- performance should be fine on reasonably modern equipment, but your milage may vary.  SchoolTool is free and installation is easy, so just try it out and see how it works for you.  

A single user installation also provides a way to test SchoolTool before introducing it schoolwide.  This guide is written for the point of view of a teacher who is setting up the system for him or herself on a computer on which he or she has root access.  

Most of documentation is also relevant to setting up SchoolTool for multiple users.  One of the biggest differences is that a school-wide installation will hopefully use more mass data imports to streamline the process of setting up hundreds of accounts, whereas an individual teacher can easily do most of the setup simply entering data into web forms.  

Contents:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   individual-setup
   years
   terms
   timetable
   courses-sections
   individual-view-timetables
   individual-user

Commit message:

moved the test of the individual-setup to individual added shell of import

source/individual.rst, after:

.. _individual:

SchoolTool for an Individual Teacher
====================================

SchoolTool is primarily designed as a server application to be used by a whole school.  However, it can be easily installed on a laptop or desktop pc running `Ubuntu Linux <http://ubuntu.com>`_ and used by a single teacher.  From the users point of view SchoolTool's web interface will work the same as it does for a whole school.  

With light load -- one user -- performance should be fine on reasonably modern equipment, but your milage may vary.  SchoolTool is free and installation is easy, so just try it out and see how it works for you.  

A single user installation also provides a way to test SchoolTool before introducing it schoolwide.  This guide is written for the point of view of a teacher who is setting up the system for him or herself on a computer on which he or she has root access.  

Most of documentation is also relevant to setting up SchoolTool for multiple users.  One of the biggest differences is that a school-wide installation will hopefully use more mass data imports to streamline the process of setting up hundreds of accounts, whereas an individual teacher can easily do most of the setup simply entering data into web forms.  

Configuring SchoolTool
----------------------

The first step is :ref:`install`.  The good news is that this is no more difficult than installing a regular desktop application.  The bad news is that it is only this easy on Ubuntu.

Once SchoolTool is installed, the next steps are described by :ref:`setup-initial`, :ref:`years`, :ref:`terms`, and :ref:`timetable` in the Administrator's Handbook.


Contents:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   courses-sections
   individual-view-timetables
   individual-user
