source/remote.rst, before:

.. _remote:

Making SchoolTool's Web Interface Accessible to Other Computers (or not)
========================================================================

In SchoolTool 2008.4, a newly installed SchoolTool server is not accessible over the network by default.  Additional steps to make it accessible from other computers are listed below.  We will probably change this behavior in future releases to be more consistent with people's expectations.

To allow all other computers to access SchoolTool's web interface
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Edit ``/etc/schooltool/schooltool-2008/paste.ini`` as root.  For example::

    sudo nano /etc/schooltool/schooltool-2008/paste.ini

Change the ``host =``  line to read::

    host = 0.0.0.0

You will then need to restart SchoolTool following the instructions in :ref:`setup_initial`

To make SchoolTool's web interface only accessible from the server
------------------------------------------------------------------

This is primarily useful while configuring and testing a server before going live, or when SchoolTool is being run on a laptop or desktop PC and only accessed on that machine.

Edit the ``paste.ini`` file as described above, setting it to read::

  host = 127.0.0.1

Commit message:

Add `apache` section, copied from schooltool/README.txt, update `remote`

source/remote.rst, after:

.. _remote:

Accessing SchoolTool from Other Computers
=========================================

A newly installed SchoolTool server is not accessible over the network by
default.

To allow access to SchoolTool from other computers
--------------------------------------------------

Edit ``/etc/schooltool/standard/paste.ini`` as root.  For example::

    sudo vim /etc/schooltool/standard/paste.ini

Change the ``host`` to ``0.0.0.0``::

    host = 0.0.0.0

And restart SchoolTool (following the instructions in :ref:`setup_initial`).

Lookup the server's IP or hostname, and try to connect to it from another
computer.  Don't forget the port number. E.g. http://192.168.1.1:7080

You will most likely want to make SchoolTool available on port 80. But this port
is reserved for the web the server. You will have to configure a virtual host or
a path in web server configuration. See :ref:`apache`.

To close SchoolTool's port
--------------------------

If SchoolTool is not intended to be used by others, or is configured to run via
apache, you can close the port schooltool server listens to.

Edit the ``paste.ini`` file as described above, setting it to read::

  host = 127.0.0.1
