source/terms.rst, before:

Creating Terms
--------------

Terms are periods of time within school years that correspond to the duration of a section, like semesters and trimesters.  

For example, if you work with the same group of students on the same schedule for a full year, you only need one big term.  If you switch schedules and/or student groupings at the end of semesters or trimesters, define those as your terms.

In this example, we will create two semesters.

Logged in as "manager," click the active school year (below it is **2008-2009**) and then the **Add a new term** link, above **Groups**:

   .. image:: images/empty-terms.png

Enter a title for the term and the start and end dates. Then click **Next**.

   .. image:: images/term-add.png

You will now see a calendar view which allows you to toggle specific days and dates on and off by clicking on them.  If a date is black means classes are in session; dates in red mean no classes.  Any day that student attendance will be taken should be in black.  A teacher training day with no classes would be red.  

For example, I've set the standard school week from Monday to Friday and added Thanksgiving vacation the week of November 27th:

   .. image:: images/term-daily.png

When you are satisfied with this, select **Add Term**:

   .. image:: images/term-added.png

If you need to edit the term, click on its title and select **Edit**.

Commit message:

Fixed bug in years Added import to setup.rst toc, removed individual toc lines from setup Added references for courses, sections, terms, timetables, and years

source/terms.rst, after:

.. _terms:

Creating Terms
==============

Terms are periods of time within school years that correspond to the duration of a section, like semesters and trimesters.  

For example, if you work with the same group of students on the same schedule for a full year, you only need one big term.  If you switch schedules and/or student groupings at the end of semesters or trimesters, define those as your terms.

In this example, we will create two semesters.

Logged in as "manager," click the active school year.  The active school year will be in red in the top menu. (below it is **2008-2009**)  Then the **Add a new term** link, above **Groups**:

   .. image:: images/empty-terms.png

Enter a title for the term and the start and end dates. Then click **Next**.

   .. image:: images/term-add.png

You will now see a calendar view which allows you to toggle specific days and dates on and off by clicking on them.  If a date is black means classes are in session; dates in red mean no classes.  Any day that student attendance will be taken should be in black.  A teacher training day with no classes would be red.  

For example, I've set the standard school week from Monday to Friday and added Thanksgiving vacation the week of November 27th:

   .. image:: images/term-daily.png

When you are satisfied with this, select **Add Term**:

   .. image:: images/term-added.png

If you need to edit the term, click on its title and select **Edit**.
